---
layout: post
title:  "Visual Odometry Series Overview"
date:   2019-05-06 23:59:59 -0400
categories: visual-odometry
---

# Welcome to the Visual Odometry Series!


## Introduction
Welcome to my series of posts on visual odometry. This is my first set of posts and so will be a learning experience for me (and hopefully you as well). The goal of this series is to walk through writing a visual odometry system and take a look at the key concepts and fundamentals involved, following the general outline of Davide Scaramuzza's excellent tutorial on visual odometry [1]. Each post in this series will focus on a single concept or module and there will also be a final wrap-up post at the end to tie all these concepts together and give a conclusive overview of the system we've built. I intend this to be a fairly deep dive taking a look at well-established results/techniques, possibly touching on recent state-of-the-art improvements. References will be provided along the way, so if you need more information, you know where to look. Looking forward to this journey with you guys!

-- Vinay

## Outline


These are the topics that will be covered:
1. Background -- What is VO? Problem Formulation. What are it's advantages/disadvantages? How does it relate to other ideas like SLAM and SfM?
2. Implementation Overview -- Basic assumptions + why these assumptions are required. Basic structure of a VO system. Varieties of VO.
3. Camera Modeling + Calibration -- Pinhole camera, thin lens assumption, Perspective vs omnidirectional camera. Calibration matrix + parameters
4. *Motion Estimation* -- Feature-based vs Direct. 2D-2D/3D-3D/3D-2D correspondences. Triangulation + Keyframe selection.
5. Outlier Rejection/Inlier Metrics -- RANSAC. Optimization constriants. 
6. Error Propagation -- 
7. Pose Optimization -- Global vs Local Bundle Adjustment. Loop Detection. 


So, without further ado, let's get started with the first topic in this series and take look at defining the problem visual odometry.

## Background

> What is Visual Odometry?

Odometry is the estimation of changes in pose (position/orientation) from the use of intrinsic sensor modalities. Visual Odometry (VO) specifically then is the estimation of changes in pose through the use image data. VO is commonly applied in mobile robotics and provides an additional source of motion estimation (typically used in conjunction with other sensors such as IMUs and wheel odometers). 

### Problem Statement:

So what exactly is the problem that we are trying to solve with VO? The problem can be defined as follows:


An agent is moving through it's environment, equipped with one or more rigidly mounted cameras and capturing images at discrete timesteps *k*. 




## References:

[1] http://rpg.ifi.uzh.ch/docs/Visual_Odometry_Tutorial.pdf





You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.

To add new posts, simply add a file in the `_posts` directory that follows the convention `YYYY-MM-DD-name-of-post.ext` and includes the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
